in this lesson we're going to look at
the resources required for a virtual
machine
now we often think about the virtual
machine resource this one seems fairly
obvious we pick a certain skew a certain
size and we have that actual resource in
azure that is the virtual machine
but realize there are other resources
that the vm may interact with that are
required for it to actually function
now firstly remember when we create a
virtual machine it lives within a
certain subscription
so there's a subscription we have and it
has to exist in a specific resource
group
just like everything else and it's going
to be deployed to a certain region
now if i think about the virtual machine
when it runs an operating system
so at minimum we're going to need an
operating system
managed disk
so this managed disk
is itself an azure resource that we're
going to connect to that virtual machine
now there is an exception to this we can
use something called an ephemeral disk
an ephemeral disk is not a managed disk
instead it's using the capacity in the
host for either cache or the temporary
disk
to store that operating system
realize the downside of that is if i
de-allocate and stop paying for the vm i
lose all of that state of the operating
system but if it is something that isn't
stateful maybe an aks work node or part
of a vm scale set i don't care
about the operating system disk state
and it can just get recreated every time
it starts then that efferent disk might
be okay
for a regular vm though we're going to
have a managed disk
that hosts the operating system we may
also have one or more optional
data disks
we want to separate out our data disks
from our operating system disk we may
have different caching options for
example
and so when i think of that
well i'm paying for those things i pay
for the vm
and i pay for the os disk i pay for the
optional data disks i might have
that virtual machine requires
connectivity
there's going to be a virtual network
in that virtual network we define it up
into subnets
so on that virtual machine we're going
to attach to it
a virtual nick
that virtual nick will connect to
a particular subnet in a particular
virtual network
so that nick is its own resource
the virtual network is its own resource
now we don't pay for virtual networks we
don't pay for the nics
we do pay for egress traffic going out
of the region
we do pay for az to az communications
different availability zones although at
the time of recording that is not yet
being billed
we pay for traffic that goes over peered
connections we pay for traffic over
private endpoints
now additionally
as part of that nick there are ip
configurations and we may optionally
have things like a public
ip
that is again its own resource that we
may bind to one of those iep
configurations
so it has an instance level public ip so
once again that public i.p
is its own resource
additionally in terms of resources what
if i want to lock down communications
i may create a network security group
again its own resource which i then
attach to enforce
at the subnet level or maybe even
the nic level but we prefer to do them
at the subnet
so i may pay i probably will be paying
for the public ip basic core standard
i pay for the vm i pay for the disk and
i would pay for that network egress i
would pay for the peered traffic i would
pay for if i'm using private endpoints
so there are many different azure
resources we can see in play here the vm
the nic network security groups public
ips disks
virtual networks and if we were to go
ahead and look at a virtual machine and
here i'm looking at the resource group
that i have a virtual machine in
we can quickly see a selection of those
yes i can see i have the virtual machine
then we can see i have a network
interface
then we can see i have an os disk
i also have an optional public ip
and i have a network security group that
i'm using with this virtual machine if i
had data disks they would be separate
resources as well and you can see
there's a whole combination of these
available to me what is a best practice
is to use the resource groups to
organize these
so i don't really want all of my
resources scattered around everywhere so
we think about the vm has to live in a
resource group
try and put all of the resources
together that make up that virtual
machine so i would definitely think
about
hey the disks of that virtual machine
the network interface the public ip
would all be part of the same resource
group
the virtual network probably would not
be that might be managed by a different
group of people but we put things
together that have that common life
cycle maybe common sets of permissions
into that resource group
so those are the resources
we think about for virtual machines
there might be extensions there might be
other services we lend to this to bring
other things up i might connect to a log
analytics workspace to send metrics and
logs to for virtual machine insight i
might use azure bastion to help me get a
managed jump box to this but i think
about just that core vm resource
these are the things i would typically
think about